Researcher Requirements:
    View a finding aid for a specific collection/resource.

Application Administrator Requirements:
    Reset a user's password.
    Assign users to an advanced data entry role and enforce appropriate permissions.
    Configure the help center URL and topic mappings.

User Requirements:
    Backend changes for managing enum lists.
    Frontend changes for managing enum lists.
    Backend changes to support loading enum value lists from the database.
    Backend changes for bulk updating one enum value to another.
    Add additional properties for repositories.
    Authenticate using LDAP.
    Authenticate locally.
    Log in.
    Access links to contextual help.

Archivist Requirements:
    Import EAD files exported by Archon.
    Import EAD files exported by the Archivists' Toolkit.
    Assign a unique identifier to a resource component.
    Associate a standard identifier string with a subject heading.
    Understand and diagnose import errors.
    Import accessions data in CSV format.
    Import resources from MARCXML records.
    Import agent information from EAC-CPF records.
    Export agent records as EAC-CPF.
    Import only agent and subject information from MARCXML records.
    Add notes to other record types.
    Add administrative data about the archival description and finding aid-related data to a top-level resource.
    Assign a level of description to a resource or resource component, with the option to specify another value if not predefined.
    Search within a repository for resource, accession, and digital object records.
    Create and edit a collection management subrecord.
    Rearrange the resource and/or digital object hierarchy using keyboard-based navigation.
    Rearrange the resource description hierarchy by dragging an archival object to a different position.
    Indicate an agent as the creator, source, or subject of an accession, resource, or resource component.
    Export a description as EAD.
    Create and edit event records.
    Manage digital objects.
    Associate an instance with a resource and/or resource component.
    Avoid overwriting someone else's changes to a record being edited.
    Create and edit rights management statements.
    Upload an EAD for import from within the frontend application.
    Import EAD data.
    Specify the source for a name form of an agent and manage sources.
    Create and edit agent records.
    Create and edit a resource record.
    Associate a subject record with a resource description.
    Associate an instance with a container.
    Assign location information to a container.

Migration Specialist Requirements:
    Store AT or Archon source record IDs in each ASpace record to support data migration integrity testing.

Administrator Requirements:
    Create a new user account for someone else.
    Declare that a user has the repository manager role for a given repository.

System Administrator Requirements:
    Control the location of the demo database and ensure it is backed up.

Repository Manager Requirements:
    Create, update, and delete archival descriptions in the repository.
    Create, update, and delete any records in the repository.

Developer Requirements:
    Use a configuration not prepackaged within a built version of the application.
    Develop a custom importer.

Basic Data Entry User Requirements:
    Create and update basic archival description information.

ReadOnly User Requirements:
    View archival descriptions in the repository.